---
title: "Taste preferences, cardiometabolic diseases, and mild cognitive impairment: A prospective cohort analysis of Chinese older adults"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/taste
date: 2024-03-28
venue: 'British Journal of Nutrition'
citation: 'Yuan, Dianqi, Tang, Huameng, Yang, Peisen, & Guo, Chao. (2024). Taste preferences, cardiometabolic diseases, and mild cognitive impairment: A prospective cohort analysis of Chinese older adults.British Journal of Nutrition. 6, 1064–1073.'
---


[[PDF]](https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/abs/taste-preferences-cardiometabolic-diseases-and-mild-cognitive-impairment-a-prospective-cohort-analysis-of-older-chinese-adults/7D5973C862DD792A58D85695AC57FBA3)

## Abstract
Taste preference is a pivotal predictor of nutrient intake, yet its impact on mild cognitive impairment (MCI) remains poorly understood. We aimed to investigate the association between taste preferences and MCI and the role of cardiometabolic diseases (CMD) in this association. The study included older adults, aged 65–90 years, with normal cognitive function at baseline who were enrolled in the Chinese Longitudinal Healthy Longevity Survey (CLHLS) from 2008 to 2018. MCI was measured by the Mini-Mental State Examination, and multivariable Cox regression models were applied. Among 6423 participants, 2534 (39·45%) developed MCI with an incidence rate of 63·12 per 1000 person-years. Compared with individuals with insipid taste, those preferring sweetness or spiciness had a higher MCI risk, while saltiness was associated with a lower risk. This association was independent of objective dietary patterns and was more pronounced among urban residents preferring sweetness and illiterate participants preferring spiciness. Notably, among sweet-liking individuals, those with one CMD experienced a significant detrimental effect, and those with co-occurring CMD had a higher incidence rate of MCI. Additionally, regional variations were observed: sweetness played a significant role in regions known for sweet cuisine, while the significance of spiciness as a risk factor diminishes in regions where it is commonly preferred. Our findings emphasize the role of subjective taste preferences in protecting cognitive function and highlight regional variations. Target strategies should focus on assisting individuals with CMD to reduce excessive sweetness intake and simultaneously receiving treatment for CMD to safeguard cognitive function.
